docs/ref/models.rst, before:

=============================
Model Mixins and Base Classes
=============================

.. module:: django_goodies.models

Django Goodies provides a series of model mixin classes that provide default fields, methods and/or managers for common model functionality.

``CommonInfoMixin``
===================

.. class:: CommonInfoMixin()

``CommonInfoMixin`` is a model mixin class that provides:

* Standard user and datetime fields: ``user_created``, ``user_modified``, ``date_created``, ``date_modified``.
* An overridden ``objects`` Manager, an instance of the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoManager` that provides access to the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet`.
* Support for :ref:`ownership-checking` on an instance and via ``CommonInfoQuerySet``.

To make use of ``CommonInfoMixin``, simply include it among your model's parent classes:

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import CommonInfoMixin
    
    class ExampleModel(CommonInfoMixin, models.Model):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)

Default values
--------------

The ``date_created`` and ``date_modified`` fields will default to the datetime at the moment the instance is initially saved.

The ``user_created`` and ``user_modified`` fields will require a ``User`` instance in order to populate their values. However, they do not need to be provided manually. The :meth:`~CommonInfoMixin.save` method of ``CommonInfoMixin`` is overridden to require a ``User`` argument. See :ref:`saving-commoninfomixin`.

.. _saving-commoninfomixin:

Saving
------

To ensure the ``user_modified`` and ``date_modified`` fields are always kept current, ``CommonInfoMixin`` overrides the :meth:`~CommonInfoMixin.save` method and the :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet.update` method of the custom manager/queryset.
Both methods are modified to take a ``User`` instance as a required argument.

.. note::
    
    These fields will be updated even if the ``save`` method is passed a sequence of ``update_fields`` that does not include it (see `Django documentation for update_fields <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/models/instances/#specifying-which-fields-to-save>`_). They will simply be appended to the list.

.. warning::
    
    Models incorporating this mixin are prevented from being involved in any process that automatically calls :meth:`~CommonInfoMixin.save` on the instance, or :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet.update` on the manager/queryset, as it won't pass the required ``user`` argument. For example, the queryset methods ``create`` and ``get_or_create`` will fail, as will saves performed by ModelForms that aren't overridden to support the special syntax.

.. _ownership-checking:

Ownership checking
------------------

The mixin also adds support for *ownership checking*. The :meth:`~CommonInfoMixin.owned_by` method can be called on an model instance to check if the instance is owned by the given user. The user can be provided either as a ``User`` instance or as the primary key of a ``User`` record.

For example, using ownership checking in a view:

.. code-block:: python
    
    def my_view(request, some_id):
        
        some_instance = ExampleModel.objects.get(pk=some_id)
        
        if not some_instance.owned_by(request.user):
            messages.error(request, 'You are not the owner')

The :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet` also adds an :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet.owned_by` method. It also accepts a user as a ``User`` instance or as the primary key of a ``User`` record. It returns a queryset filtered to records where the ``user_created`` field matches the given user.

Methods
-------

.. automethod:: CommonInfoMixin.save
.. automethod:: CommonInfoMixin.owned_by

.. seealso::
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoManager`
        The custom Manager exposed by the ``objects`` attribute.
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet`
        The custom QuerySet exposed by ``CommonInfoManager``.


``ArchivableMixin``
===================

.. class:: ArchivableMixin()

``ArchivableMixin`` is a model mixin class that provides:

* An ``is_archived`` Boolean field, defaulting to ``False``.
* An overridden ``objects`` Manager, an instance of the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableManager` that provides access to the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet`.
* Two additional managers, ``live`` and ``archived``, with default querysets filtered to unarchived (``is_archived == False``) and archived (``is_archived == True``) records by default. Both are also instances of ``ArchivableManager``.
* Support for :ref:`archiving-unarchiving`, both at the instance level and in bulk via ``ArchivableQuerySet``.

To make use of ``ArchivableMixin``, simply include it among your model's parent classes:

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import ArchivableMixin
    
    class ExampleModel(ArchivableMixin, models.Model):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)

The managers
------------

``ArchivableMixin`` provides three managers: ``objects``, ``live`` and ``archived``.

All three are instances of :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableManager`, and so provide access to the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet`. ``ArchivableQuerySet`` provides methods for custom bulk operations. See :ref:`archiving-unarchiving`.

The three differ in the default querysets they provide:

- ``objects`` provides access to all records, as per usual
- ``live`` filters to records with the ``is_archived`` flag set to ``False``
- ``archived`` filters to records with the ``is_archived`` flag set to ``True``

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> ExampleModel(name='test1', is_archived=True).save()
    >>> ExampleModel(name='test2', is_archived=False).save()
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.count()
    2
    >>> ExampleModel.live.count()
    1
    >>> ExampleModel.archived.count()
    1

.. _archiving-unarchiving:

Archiving and unarchiving
-------------------------

Instances of ``ArchivableMixin`` have the :meth:`~ArchivableMixin.archive` and :meth:`~ArchivableMixin.unarchive` methods. These set the ``is_archived`` flag of the instance to ``True`` or ``False``, respectively, and save the instance. Any arguments are passed through to the call to ``save``.

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> instance = ExampleModel(name='test')
    >>> instance.save()
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.get(name='test').is_archived
    False
    >>> instance.archive()
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.get(name='test').is_archived
    True
    >>> instance.unarchive()
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.get(name='test').is_archived
    False

All three managers (``objects``, ``live`` and ``archived``) also provide access to the bulk :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet.archive` and :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet.unarchive` methods of ``ArchivableQuerySet``.

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> ExampleModel(name='test1', is_archived=True).save()
    >>> ExampleModel(name='test2', is_archived=False).save()
    >>> print ExampleModel.live.count(), ExampleModel.archived.count()
    1, 1
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.all().archive()
    1
    >>> print ExampleModel.live.count(), ExampleModel.archived.count()
    0, 2
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.all().unarchive()
    2
    >>> print ExampleModel.live.count(), ExampleModel.archived.count()
    2, 0

.. note::
    
    ``ArchivableManager`` does not provide access to these methods directly. Like ``delete``, ``archive`` and ``unarchive`` are only accessible via a QuerySet.
    
    .. code-block:: python
        
        # incorrect - won't work
        >>> ExampleModel.objects.archive()
        
        # correct
        >>> ExampleModel.objects.all().archive()


Methods
-------

.. automethod:: ArchivableMixin.archive
.. automethod:: ArchivableMixin.unarchive

.. seealso::
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableManager`
        The custom Manager exposed by the ``objects``, ``live`` and ``archived`` attributes.
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet`
        The custom QuerySet exposed by ``ArchivableManager``.



``VersioningMixin``
===================

.. class:: VersioningMixin()

``VersioningMixin`` is a model mixin class that provides:

* A ``version`` field that is automatically incremented on every save.
* An overridden ``objects`` Manager, an instance of the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningManager` that provides access to the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningQuerySet`.

To make use of ``VersioningMixin``, simply include it among your model's parent classes:

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import VersioningMixin
    
    class ExampleModel(VersioningMixin, models.Model):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)

Incrementing ``version``
------------------------

Incrementation of the ``version`` field is done atomically, through the use of a Django ``F()`` expression, to avoid possible race conditions. See `Django documentation for F() expressions <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/models/expressions/#django.db.models.F>`_.

To ensure the ``version`` field is always kept current, ``VersioningMixin`` overrides the :meth:`~VersioningMixin.save` method and the :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningQuerySet.update` method of the custom manager/queryset.

.. note::
    
    The ``version`` field will be updated even if the ``save`` method is passed a sequence of ``update_fields`` that does not include it (see `Django documentation for update_fields <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/models/instances/#specifying-which-fields-to-save>`_). They will simply be appended to the list.

.. warning::
    
    Once an instance is saved and the ``F()`` expression is used to increment the version, the ``version`` field will become a Django ``Expression`` instance. At this point, it is no longer accessible as an integer. For the same reason an ``F()`` expression is used to perform the incrementation (race conditions), the new version cannot be retrieved from the database after the save and used to replace the ``Expression`` value. There is the possibility the version retrieved will not be the one that matches the rest of the values on the model. The only way to regain a usable ``version`` field after saving a model instance is requerying for the whole instance.
    Attempting to access the ``version`` field after it has been incremented will raise a :exc:`VersioningMixin.AmbiguousVersionError` exception.

.. note::
    
    Even though directly accessing the ``version`` field is not possible after it has been atomically incremented, subsequent saves of the same instance will continue to correctly increment it.

``AmbiguousVersionError``
-------------------------

.. exception:: VersioningMixin.AmbiguousVersionError
    
    A subclass of :exc:`~django_goodies.exceptions.ModelAmbiguousVersionError` specific to the ``VersioningMixin`` class. Raised when attempting to access the ``version`` field after it has been atomically incremented.

Methods
-------

.. automethod:: VersioningMixin.save

.. seealso::
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningManager`
        The custom Manager exposed by the ``objects`` attribute.
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningQuerySet`
        The custom QuerySet exposed by ``VersioningManager``.


Mixing Mixins
=============

A model can include any combination of the above mixins. However, since they all use custom managers to provide additional functionality unique to them, a model using multiple mixins will need to provide its own manager that incorporates the functionality of each. For most mixins, this is only necessary for ``objects``, but for :class:`ArchivableMixin`, the ``live`` and ``archived`` managers will also need to be customised.

The following is an example of a model using the :class:`CommonInfoMixin` and :class:`ArchivableMixin`.

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import CommonInfoMixin, ArchivableMixin
    from django_goodies.managers import (
        CommonInfoManager, CommonInfoQuerySet, ArchivableManager, ArchivableQuerySet
    )
    
    class ExampleQuerySet(CommonInfoQuerySet, ArchivableQuerySet):
        
        # Need to override the "archive" and "unarchive" methods inherited from
        # ArchivableQuerySet as they call "update", which requires a User
        # argument thanks to CommonInfoQuerySet.
        
        def archive(self, user):
            
            self.update(user, is_archived=True)
        
        def unarchive(self, user):
            
            self.update(user, is_archived=False)
    
    class ExampleManager(CommonInfoManager, ArchivableManager):
        
        def get_queryset(self):
            
            return ExampleQuerySet(self.model, using=self._db)
    
    class ExampleModel(CommonInfoMixin, ArchivableMixin, models.Model):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)
        
        objects = ExampleManager()
        live = ExampleManager(archived=False)
        archived = ExampleManager(archived=True)

For a ready-made combination of all three mixins (:class:`CommonInfoMixin`, :class:`ArchivableMixin` and :class:`VersioningMixin`), see :class:`StaticAbstract`.

``StaticAbstract``
==================

.. class:: StaticAbstract()

``StaticAbstract`` is a combination of :class:`CommonInfoMixin`, :class:`ArchivableMixin` and :class:`VersioningMixin`. It is designed as an abstract base class for models, rather than a mixin itself. It includes all the fields, as well as custom ``objects``, ``live`` and ``archived`` managers, and provides access to all the functionality offered by each of the mixins.

To make use of ``StaticAbstract``, simply inherit from it:

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import StaticAbstract
    
    class ExampleModel(StaticAbstract):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)

Commit message:

Added documentation for GOODIES_COMMON_INFO_REQUIRE_USER_ON_SAVE setting.

docs/ref/models.rst, after:

=============================
Model Mixins and Base Classes
=============================

.. module:: django_goodies.models

Django Goodies provides a series of model mixin classes that provide default fields, methods and/or managers for common model functionality.

``CommonInfoMixin``
===================

.. class:: CommonInfoMixin()

``CommonInfoMixin`` is a model mixin class that provides:

* Standard user and datetime fields: ``user_created``, ``user_modified``, ``date_created``, ``date_modified``.
* An overridden ``objects`` Manager, an instance of the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoManager` that provides access to the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet`.
* Support for :ref:`ownership-checking` on an instance and via ``CommonInfoQuerySet``.

To make use of ``CommonInfoMixin``, simply include it among your model's parent classes:

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import CommonInfoMixin
    
    class ExampleModel(CommonInfoMixin, models.Model):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)

Default values
--------------

The ``date_created`` and ``date_modified`` fields will default to the datetime at the moment the instance is initially saved.

The ``user_created`` and ``user_modified`` fields will require a ``User`` instance in order to populate their values. However, they do not need to be populated manually. The :meth:`~CommonInfoMixin.save` method of ``CommonInfoMixin`` is overridden to accept a ``User`` argument. See :ref:`saving-commoninfomixin`.

.. _saving-commoninfomixin:

Saving
------

To ensure the ``user_modified`` and ``date_modified`` fields are always kept current, ``CommonInfoMixin`` overrides the :meth:`~CommonInfoMixin.save` method and the :meth:`~django_goodies.models.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet.update` method of the custom manager/queryset.
Both methods are modified to take a ``User`` instance as a required first argument.

.. note::
    
    These fields will be updated even if the :meth:`~CommonInfoMixin.save` method is passed a sequence of ``update_fields`` that does not include it (see `Django documentation for update_fields <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/models/instances/#specifying-which-fields-to-save>`_). They will simply be appended to the list.

.. warning::
    
    Third party code (e.g. Django, third party apps) will not pass a ``User`` to the :meth:`~CommonInfoMixin.save` or :meth:`~django_goodies.models.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet.update` methods. Django Goodies provides :class:`~django_goodies.forms.CommonInfoForm` to enable Django ``ModelForms`` to work but, for example, the queryset methods ``create`` and ``get_or_create`` will fail.
    
    If you make use of any such code, and it is not possible or feasible to write wrappers around it to update the method call, you may need to disable the "required" nature of the ``user`` argument. This can be done with the :ref:`setting-GOODIES_COMMON_INFO_REQUIRE_USER_ON_SAVE` setting, but note the :ref:`warnings <require-user-on-save-warnings>`.

.. _ownership-checking:

Ownership checking
------------------

The mixin also adds support for *ownership checking*. The :meth:`~CommonInfoMixin.owned_by` method can be called on an model instance to check if the instance is owned by the given user. The user can be provided either as a ``User`` instance or as the primary key of a ``User`` record.

For example, using ownership checking in a view:

.. code-block:: python
    
    def my_view(request, some_id):
        
        some_instance = ExampleModel.objects.get(pk=some_id)
        
        if not some_instance.owned_by(request.user):
            messages.error(request, 'You are not the owner')

The :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet` also adds an :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet.owned_by` method. It also accepts a user as a ``User`` instance or as the primary key of a ``User`` record. It returns a queryset filtered to records where the ``user_created`` field matches the given user.

Methods
-------

.. automethod:: CommonInfoMixin.save
.. automethod:: CommonInfoMixin.owned_by

.. seealso::
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoManager`
        The custom Manager exposed by the ``objects`` attribute.
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.CommonInfoQuerySet`
        The custom QuerySet exposed by ``CommonInfoManager``.
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.forms.CommonInfoForm`
        A ``ModelForm`` subclass to act as a base for ``CommonInfoMixin`` model forms.


``ArchivableMixin``
===================

.. class:: ArchivableMixin()

``ArchivableMixin`` is a model mixin class that provides:

* An ``is_archived`` Boolean field, defaulting to ``False``.
* An overridden ``objects`` Manager, an instance of the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableManager` that provides access to the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet`.
* Two additional managers, ``live`` and ``archived``, with default querysets filtered to unarchived (``is_archived == False``) and archived (``is_archived == True``) records by default. Both are also instances of ``ArchivableManager``.
* Support for :ref:`archiving-unarchiving`, both at the instance level and in bulk via ``ArchivableQuerySet``.

To make use of ``ArchivableMixin``, simply include it among your model's parent classes:

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import ArchivableMixin
    
    class ExampleModel(ArchivableMixin, models.Model):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)

The managers
------------

``ArchivableMixin`` provides three managers: ``objects``, ``live`` and ``archived``.

All three are instances of :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableManager`, and so provide access to the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet`. ``ArchivableQuerySet`` provides methods for custom bulk operations. See :ref:`archiving-unarchiving`.

The three differ in the default querysets they provide:

- ``objects`` provides access to all records, as per usual
- ``live`` filters to records with the ``is_archived`` flag set to ``False``
- ``archived`` filters to records with the ``is_archived`` flag set to ``True``

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> ExampleModel(name='test1', is_archived=True).save()
    >>> ExampleModel(name='test2', is_archived=False).save()
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.count()
    2
    >>> ExampleModel.live.count()
    1
    >>> ExampleModel.archived.count()
    1

.. _archiving-unarchiving:

Archiving and unarchiving
-------------------------

Instances of ``ArchivableMixin`` have the :meth:`~ArchivableMixin.archive` and :meth:`~ArchivableMixin.unarchive` methods. These set the ``is_archived`` flag of the instance to ``True`` or ``False``, respectively, and save the instance. Any arguments are passed through to the call to ``save``.

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> instance = ExampleModel(name='test')
    >>> instance.save()
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.get(name='test').is_archived
    False
    >>> instance.archive()
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.get(name='test').is_archived
    True
    >>> instance.unarchive()
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.get(name='test').is_archived
    False

All three managers (``objects``, ``live`` and ``archived``) also provide access to the bulk :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet.archive` and :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet.unarchive` methods of ``ArchivableQuerySet``.

.. code-block:: python
    
    >>> ExampleModel(name='test1', is_archived=True).save()
    >>> ExampleModel(name='test2', is_archived=False).save()
    >>> print ExampleModel.live.count(), ExampleModel.archived.count()
    1, 1
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.all().archive()
    1
    >>> print ExampleModel.live.count(), ExampleModel.archived.count()
    0, 2
    >>> ExampleModel.objects.all().unarchive()
    2
    >>> print ExampleModel.live.count(), ExampleModel.archived.count()
    2, 0

.. note::
    
    ``ArchivableManager`` does not provide access to these methods directly. Like ``delete``, ``archive`` and ``unarchive`` are only accessible via a QuerySet.
    
    .. code-block:: python
        
        # incorrect - won't work
        >>> ExampleModel.objects.archive()
        
        # correct
        >>> ExampleModel.objects.all().archive()


Methods
-------

.. automethod:: ArchivableMixin.archive
.. automethod:: ArchivableMixin.unarchive

.. seealso::
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableManager`
        The custom Manager exposed by the ``objects``, ``live`` and ``archived`` attributes.
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.ArchivableQuerySet`
        The custom QuerySet exposed by ``ArchivableManager``.



``VersioningMixin``
===================

.. class:: VersioningMixin()

``VersioningMixin`` is a model mixin class that provides:

* A ``version`` field that is automatically incremented on every save.
* An overridden ``objects`` Manager, an instance of the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningManager` that provides access to the custom :class:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningQuerySet`.

To make use of ``VersioningMixin``, simply include it among your model's parent classes:

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import VersioningMixin
    
    class ExampleModel(VersioningMixin, models.Model):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)

Incrementing ``version``
------------------------

Incrementation of the ``version`` field is done atomically, through the use of a Django ``F()`` expression, to avoid possible race conditions. See `Django documentation for F() expressions <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/models/expressions/#django.db.models.F>`_.

To ensure the ``version`` field is always kept current, ``VersioningMixin`` overrides the :meth:`~VersioningMixin.save` method and the :meth:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningQuerySet.update` method of the custom manager/queryset.

.. note::
    
    The ``version`` field will be updated even if the ``save`` method is passed a sequence of ``update_fields`` that does not include it (see `Django documentation for update_fields <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/models/instances/#specifying-which-fields-to-save>`_). They will simply be appended to the list.

.. warning::
    
    Once an instance is saved and the ``F()`` expression is used to increment the version, the ``version`` field will become a Django ``Expression`` instance. At this point, it is no longer accessible as an integer. For the same reason an ``F()`` expression is used to perform the incrementation (race conditions), the new version cannot be retrieved from the database after the save and used to replace the ``Expression`` value. There is the possibility the version retrieved will not be the one that matches the rest of the values on the model. The only way to regain a usable ``version`` field after saving a model instance is requerying for the whole instance.
    Attempting to access the ``version`` field after it has been incremented will raise a :exc:`VersioningMixin.AmbiguousVersionError` exception.

.. note::
    
    Even though directly accessing the ``version`` field is not possible after it has been atomically incremented, subsequent saves of the same instance will continue to correctly increment it.

``AmbiguousVersionError``
-------------------------

.. exception:: VersioningMixin.AmbiguousVersionError
    
    A subclass of :exc:`~django_goodies.exceptions.ModelAmbiguousVersionError` specific to the ``VersioningMixin`` class. Raised when attempting to access the ``version`` field after it has been atomically incremented.

Methods
-------

.. automethod:: VersioningMixin.save

.. seealso::
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningManager`
        The custom Manager exposed by the ``objects`` attribute.
    
    :class:`~django_goodies.managers.VersioningQuerySet`
        The custom QuerySet exposed by ``VersioningManager``.


Mixing Mixins
=============

A model can include any combination of the above mixins. However, since they all use custom managers to provide additional functionality unique to them, a model using multiple mixins will need to provide its own manager that incorporates the functionality of each. For most mixins, this is only necessary for ``objects``, but for :class:`ArchivableMixin`, the ``live`` and ``archived`` managers will also need to be customised.

The following is an example of a model using the :class:`CommonInfoMixin` and :class:`ArchivableMixin`.

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import CommonInfoMixin, ArchivableMixin
    from django_goodies.managers import (
        CommonInfoManager, CommonInfoQuerySet, ArchivableManager, ArchivableQuerySet
    )
    
    class ExampleQuerySet(CommonInfoQuerySet, ArchivableQuerySet):
        
        # Need to override the "archive" and "unarchive" methods inherited from
        # ArchivableQuerySet as they call "update", which requires a User
        # argument thanks to CommonInfoQuerySet.
        
        def archive(self, user):
            
            self.update(user, is_archived=True)
        
        def unarchive(self, user):
            
            self.update(user, is_archived=False)
    
    class ExampleManager(CommonInfoManager, ArchivableManager):
        
        def get_queryset(self):
            
            return ExampleQuerySet(self.model, using=self._db)
    
    class ExampleModel(CommonInfoMixin, ArchivableMixin, models.Model):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)
        
        objects = ExampleManager()
        live = ExampleManager(archived=False)
        archived = ExampleManager(archived=True)

For a ready-made combination of all three mixins (:class:`CommonInfoMixin`, :class:`ArchivableMixin` and :class:`VersioningMixin`), see :class:`StaticAbstract`.

``StaticAbstract``
==================

.. class:: StaticAbstract()

``StaticAbstract`` is a combination of :class:`CommonInfoMixin`, :class:`ArchivableMixin` and :class:`VersioningMixin`. It is designed as an abstract base class for models, rather than a mixin itself. It includes all the fields, as well as custom ``objects``, ``live`` and ``archived`` managers, and provides access to all the functionality offered by each of the mixins.

To make use of ``StaticAbstract``, simply inherit from it:

.. code-block:: python
    
    from django.db import models
    from django_goodies.models import StaticAbstract
    
    class ExampleModel(StaticAbstract):
        
        name = models.CharField(max_length=64)
